thekmj

medium

# `getEmergencySettlementBPTAmount()`: Wrong usage of `IERC20.totalSupply()` on BPT tokens

## Summary

For BPT token in Balancer's Composable Stable Pools, `getActualSupply()` should be used instead of regular ERC20's `totalSupply()`. This is because there are non-circulating BPT tokens in the pool itself.

## Vulnerability Detail

This issue is specific to the Boosted3Token pool, for it is a Composable Stable Pool. According to the Balancer docs:

> Note about pre-minted BPT
>
> Some pools (like bb-a-USD) have pre-minted BPT. This means all LP tokens are minted at the time of pool creation so that you can use a swap to effectively join/exit the pool. Because of this, when querying the supply, you should NOT use `bpt.getSupply()`, but rather use `bpt.getVirtualSupply()`.

Source: https://dev.balancer.fi/references/lp-tokens/underlying#note-about-pre-minted-bpt

To give more context, the Composable Stable Pool mints its own token to the vault (effectively INF amount) to its own internal balance. The idea is to facilitate batch swapping alongside pool joins/exits, making it possible to swap the LP token itself alongside other pool tokens. [Reference.](https://docs.balancer.fi/products/balancer-pools/composable-stable-pools)

The main point is that, these pre-minted tokens are never in circulation, and should not be considered in the total supply under any meaningful circumstances, as they are never actually taken out of the vault except for during swapping. The actual circulating supply of the LP is known as virtual supply.

As a result, the function `getEmergencySettlementBPTAmount()` will return a meaningless value.

## Impact

`getEmergencySettlementBPTAmount()` will return wrong value for `totalBPTSupply`.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/notional-finance/leveraged-vaults/blob/2cdcf9c8abc5bfa619ea9cea0300a72d43a37ad0/contracts/vaults/Boosted3TokenAuraVault.sol#L165-L171

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Use `getActualSupply()` instead of `IERC20.totalSupply()`.
